---
title: "My first post"
summary: Why I'm starting to write
date: 2025-12-17
series: ["PaperMod"]
weight: 1
aliases: ["/the-first"]
tags: ["PaperMod", "First"]
author: ["Carlos A"]
cover:
  image: images/cover.webp
  hiddenInList: true
---
One night, I suddenly became inspired to start writing.

The main purpose for this is to provide an outlet through which I can write about things I've learned.

The reason I want an outlet is because I realised I've actually forgotten quite a few things I spent a lot of time trying to learn and enjoyed learning, and writing about things might help me retain more and give me something that is easier to look back on further down the line.

I say this because I tried creating my own knowledge base using Notion/Obsidian during Covid, but after moving house and changing jobs I forgot to update it for a while. After a few years, the content in that database had become irrelevant to me. 

I've worked as a Front End developer, a DevOps Engineer, IT Support, public/private sector IT- all of which allowed me to build experience and learn about technology. Every role required something new and built upon the last. This is the exciting part about working in technology that keeps me motivated. 

In an ideal world, I'd like to be able to call upon any of the skills and knowledge I had for the various roles I've held previously but unfortunately my mind doesn't work like that. The next best thing I can do is regularly write about these things in the hope they stay somewhat fresh in my mind even if I don't work with them on a day to day.

Topics I intend to write about (non-exhaustive):

Networking

AWS

Azure

GCP

Linux

AI

Kubernetes

Thinking from first principles